>> Steve Kinney: So now, we're gonna
do a little bit of a victory lap here.
We're gonna talk about ones that involve
at least a certain amount of social
engineering, right?
Which means, before,
with cross-site request forgery,
we were tricking the browser into
doing something on their behalf.
In cross-site scripting,
we were tricking, again,
the browser into doing something on
their behalf in a more insidious way.
In this kinda next kinda example,
what we're gonna do is effectively look
at how can we trick the user into
just doing the bad thing, right?
And one of those is called clickjacking,
and that's a definition that I wrote.
I'm gonna give you the shorter
version of that definition.
You take the thing you want them to do and
you make it an opacity of 0,
and then you put something else that
they want to do behind it and you hope
that the mouse clicks the bad thing
that you want to have happened, right?
And so basically, you are kind of
definitely click this button and
realizing that button does
something nefarious, right?
Again, this involves that they
don't look at the URL bar.
This involves, you get a lot of things
just right depending on what you work on,
the target audience for
this attack could be different, right,
which is why it's kinda in our bonus
run victory lap section of the show.
But effectively, we'll talk about it and
then I will show you kind of
a quick example, which is they take
a your webpage, they embed it in iframe.
They either put something in front of
it or put it in front of something and
play around the opacity and positioning
to make where you click on the iframe
the thing they wanna have happen,
but hide it from you with deception.
That way, the user thinks
they're doing something else and
they're doing the thing
that you wanted them to do.
That's cool, words are nice.
Let's go take a look.
So you can imagine what
this in the examples,
then what this one called
clickjacking might do.
So let's check that one out.
>> Steve Kinney: So yeah,
npm start, clickjacking.
So I'm running two different ports
right now, the attacker and the victim.
Let's look at the victim site first.
No, holding option is not what I wanted.
So this is the legit site, right?
Yeah, I wasn't building
an entire another bank UI, okay?
This button, you click it,
it sends $100 to Alice, right?
Ideally, you're logged in,
everything's fine, yay, yay, yay.
The attack site, and I purposely,
just to kind of make a point,
the attack site here has this cool
button that says Win a Free Prize.
Let's go click that button.
You also sent $100 to Alice, right?
Now, again, I'm peeking out the old UI so
I can make a point, but
ideally you could either play
with the opacity a little bit, or
get the positioning just right,
to be, yeah,
one of those stupid games or
something like that.
Do the thing and make it happen, right?
Again, this involves that
they don't look at the URL,
that you get the entire look and
feel just right.
But we all have people in our lives
that we know would fall for this.
Let's be honest with ourselves.
If you close your eyes, you can think
about somebody you know in your family
that would definitely fall for this.
Honestly, it could be my 11-year-old son,
[LAUGH] right?
So we go through and we can kinda
get a sense of kinda how this works.
This is just starting the two different
servers, yada yada, nothing to see here.
Okay, victim is just a normal site,
nothing that you wouldn't expect to see,
it's got a button, it does stuff.
The attacker is a little more interesting,
which is, if you look,
we've got this iframe, which is,
other than ports are hard and
local host,
assume that that is a real domain name.
It's got an iframe, and
we can kind of go take a look.
That one is set to actually be seen.
I think I can change the opacity of 0, but
the more important part
is there is a CSS class.
I'm using the Tailwind one, but there's
a CSS property called pointer-events-none.
That means I don't care what happens
when you click on this thing.
Make believe that it's unclickable,
unanythingable, right?
And if you look, effectively,
what you can do is absolute position, and
you're just putting it over the other
one and saying all click events
should pass through to the underlying
to whatever's beneath it, right?
And this is useful in a whole
bunch of places, but in this case,
all that is really happening is,
I think, if I'm not mistaken.
I just thought it was better to show it,
but if we're not mistaken,
yeah, this looks like we made
the other one an opacity 0.
Still there, right?
All click events go through
the malicious site and
pass down into the invisible site, right?
And so this could be, and
they're logged in, right?
That's a legit cookie session.
We're not CSRFing anything, right?
It's a fine click event
that was totally cool and
very normal,
except that it wasn't cool at all.
And something could happen
behind the scenes, and
they probably wouldn't even know, right?
And so
how do we protect yourself against this?
Do we have any ideas?
>> Steve Kinney: I have
slides if we don't, but-
>> Student: There's some headers that I've
used before.
>> Steve Kinney: Like what?
>> Student: I'd have to
look, I can't remember.
>> Steve Kinney: So
you've got a few options.
There is this one that will work,
which is frame-options, which you can
guess what either deny or
same origin do, right?
Deny means, no, you cannot frame me.
I will not be framed.
Literally,
I guess you are truly
being framed in this case.
God, I hate puns, hate puns.
But you can deny it outright or
you say only things from the same origin,
right?
So only things from the origin that I
have as a page can also frame me, right?
Which is probably also useful
if you need to embed your own
content into the page, right?
And it's tricky because a lot of times you
see those, this whole idea of iframes.
And sharing cross origin work makes
total sense in a lot of cases,
because you think about those, you go to
a site and you see a comment section and
you're already logged into Facebook,
right?
Those comments are in an iframe, right?
That is, that Facebook is hosting, so
your Facebook cookie works, right?
And so there's a lot of reasonable use
cases that can be taken advantage of.
But if you know that you're not
doing one of these things, and
you can also set this header.
This is an example of not using Helmet.
If you just wanted to see, I think, for
the CSP, there's enough going on, and
trying to do string
interpolation was not worth it.
But you can also just
set a header as well.
So let's go ahead and
we'll try that one out first, there it is.
We can do this.
>> Steve Kinney: We can
deny any kind of framing.
And now, if we go back,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's see,
I might have to kill this.
I don't know if this one
totally refreshes the same way.
Can I try to load two at the same time?
We'll find out.
>> Steve Kinney: It has an opacity 0, too,
I think why we got to put that one back.
So we can actually see the fact that,
let's click.
No, I'm still borked.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, I'll check
the header on that one in a second.
We got some other options too,
but that should work.
We'll find out what.
>> Steve Kinney: So
why it didn't work before?
Disable cache doesn't disable the cache if
your developer tools aren't open, right?
And so it cached the header from that
first time and said, this is fine,
which is kind of one of the problems
a little bit with some of these,
the caching, which is you need to
figure out a way to bust that cache.
And we can talk about that
later if you really want to,
involves fun with CDNs and
other stuff like that in a lot of cases.
But if we kinda disable the cache,
we get a fresh page.
You'll see that,
>> Steve Kinney: Refuses to display it,
because the frame options
were set to deny.
And this would be same, it's true,
cuz, I don't know that same origin
on ports matter in the real web.
I'm pretty sure you get a little bit
more leeway with localhost, right?
So I can start up an NGINX thing.
You can see that as well, but I'm not
convinced that same origin would actually
do what I want it to do right now.
And so yeah, that'll do the trick.
And let's see other options that you
have that you can play around with.
Let's see.
So the other one is just
a regular CSP header, which is,
you have one that you
can say frame ancestors,
which is arguably, personally,
I think I have both set.
I think X-Frame-Options is older and
maybe not as widely supported,
but I set both because,
you know what doesn't cost me a lot?
The 20 bytes of setting two headers,
cuz I'm paranoid, right?
But you can kinda have
that in place too and
if you look at the X-Frame-Options,
you had only same origin and deny.
Here, you can also allow list
other ones as well, right?
So I would argue if, for
some reason, you are allergic
to setting both,
go with this one, I guess, right?
It kinda depends on the origin,
unless you're on some shared origin, but
you probably not.
So you can set it there as well.
And the other option is you can write
JavaScript that can check to see
if it has a parent, and if so,
just bust out of the frame completely.
Let's give it, yeah, send-money.ts.
I'm pretty sure I can do,
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
something like this should do the trick.
I think TypeScript's going to
get a little angrier with me,
but,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's try this out.
So I'm basically saying,
window has a property called self,
which is itself, and
then top is the parent, right?
And if you are by yourself,
you're your own parent,
and if you're not,
you're in an iframe, right?
And so basically, what we're gonna
to say is, if window.self and
window.top are not the same,
bust me out of this frame, right?
And so let's see if that works.
Except we didn't load the frame at all,
cuz I still have that CSP header.
So let's take that out.
Too much protection.
Where is it?
Alphabetical order is hard.
>> Dustin: I know your browser's blocking
something in the upper right corner.
Is that the redirect it in
the URL bar on the upper right?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, hey,
there we go, let's try it again.
Dustin saves the day.
Yeah, it was kinda interesting, because
maybe you need both in this case, too.
But basically,
the very legit site is saying,
if I'm in a frame,
get me out of the frame, right?
Re-navigate me out of back to
innocent payment site, right, and
not where I was before.
Now, it's interesting.
Chrome's security then was like, whoa,
your code is trying to change all this,
so maybe you need to do both.
But theoretically, you can also choose
to try to navigate yourself out as well.
And so that basically just
tries to destroy out the frame.
Arguably, I would say that if it
is truly concerning both, again,
to our theme of earlier today,
which is ideally have the CSP saying
your frame doesn't load, and then also
maybe have the fallback, which is if for
some reason it did,
not because CSPs will ever fail you.
I've never heard of an issue where
it's CSPs were broken in a browser,
but I have heard times when
somebody made a tiny change and
then the CSP didn't work anymore,
see also me earlier, right?
And so having that fallback mechanism,
even if you never need it,
is good because a lot of times security
misconfigurations are honest mistakes
that somebody did while they're
working on something else, right?
And so having both, I think,
makes total sense, and you should do it.